---
title: E-reader Considerations
description: Some thoughts about the current e-reader landscape.
---

Earlier this year I lost my Kindle Paperwhite while on a camping trip, and I've been looking for a replacement since I very much prefer it over reading on a phone. The Kindle I owned was a model from 2012 and it still worked exactly as expected. I was even able to install some custom firmware to remove the lock screen ads and have it show my bookcovers when locked. Overall, it was a nice experience, but I still do have some complaints about it.

Firstly, Amazon's proprietary MOBI format for e-books which was recently retired. Any EPUB that I wanted to load onto it had to first be converted to MOBI using [Calibre](https://calibre-ebook.com/). Which means to use it I needed a laptop to convert each book, and I had to provide the cover art or else it would show up blank. I would then just use the Kindle e-mail feature to send it to the Kindle wirelessly. This worked okay, but man was it a pain in the ass. 

Amazon eventually retired the MOBI format and I could not longer even email them, so I had to plug in my Kindle every single time I wanted to transfer 1 or 2 books to it.  I got tired of it and was even thinking of getting a new e-reader anyway. So, now that I'm without a Kindle I can finally move away from Amazon (and not just because of their shitty products). 

I also use Goodreads (Amazon again... sad face) and I originally got that Kindle because I thought the Goodreads integration would be nice. Turns out it barely functioned, and while I was able to view my friends' activity, trying to share my reading progress was nigh impossible. Whether it worked depended on the alignment of the sun and moon and the weather that day, and I ultimately stopped bothering. So again I had to have my phone on me to track my reading. Why did I even have this thing if I needed a laptop, a phone, and the will of God to do what I wanted?

Anyway... issues aside, I really like having an e-reader. E-ink is less strenious on the eyes than a phone screen, and the form factor of most e-readers is more comfortable in my hand. There are no distractions while reading, and it's lighter and more convenient than carrying a book around while I'm traveling. I can even download new books to it if I want to read something new. It's wonderful. 

So, after searching around I have to wonder... why have they not gotten more affordable in the last ten years? The Kindle I had was $120 when it was new, and I bought it used for $50. I look at the market now, and e-readers which look almost identical are double, even triple the price. It seems like some now have built in speakers for audiobooks, and bluetooth connectivity, and this and that. There are also plenty of e-ink tablets which have entire general purpose operating systems for note taking and light internet browsing. 

Ultimately, I don't need any of that stuff so I decided to buy a used Kobo Clara HD. It can read whatever file type I want so I don't have to waste time converting my e-books. The screen looks just as nice as any other e-reader, and it has a perfectly adequate 8GB of storage. What really convinced me is the built-in OverDrive functionality which lets me download books straight from my public library. This is great since I already use OverDrive on my phone for many of my audiobooks.

This is not a review, but even though it's from 2018 it feels pretty much the same. The screen is a bit nicer, it has a bit more storage, and the screen refresh is maybe a bit quicker. My favorite thing about it is not having to deal with Amazon's crap. No need to spend time converting each book to the right format, no need to deal with books disappearing for no reason. I just connect to calibre and move them over.

So... moral of the story is just buy used, I guess?